
                                                    Static vs non Static

 1. Static method and variable belongs to class so can not be inheriteted or called from another class with object it has to called with class name.
 2. One static method can call another directly if belongs to the same class
 3. we can only initialize a static final attribute directly or in STATIC initialization block.


                                                  Encapsulation

 1.  A class is called encapsulated if, 1. All the data Members are private.  2. Getter and Settes are their for all the data members.


                                                  Upcasting and Downcasting


                                                  Constructor

 1. Return type always Void and it cannot be static.
 2. If you do not make any constructor then compiler will craete a default constructor but if you create even one constructor then complier will not craete defalut constructor.
 3. while copying avriable of one object into another through paramterize constructor your object should be of same type.
 4. When object of child class is created then first constructor of base class is created is invoke then constructor of child class.


                                                 "This" keyword

this refers to the current object of the class.
It is used inside non-static methods and constructors to access instance variables and methods.

this is used to resolve naming conflicts and for constructor chaining.
It differentiates instance variables from local variables and allows calling another constructor using this().

this cannot be used in static context.
Because static members belong to the class, not to any specific object.

                                                "super" keyword

1.super refers to the immediate parent class object.
It is used to access parent class variables and methods.

2.super() is used to call the parent class constructor both default and prametrized.
It must be the first statement inside the child class constructor.

3.super cannot be used in static context.
Because inheritance works at the object level, not class level.

4."This" and "supper" can not be used simultaneously. If "this exsist in our constructor then JVM won't place "super" keyword.

5.this() and super() must be the first statement in a constructor.

6. By defalut super() is present in first like of child constructor.

                                                "final" keyword

1. A final  cannot be reassigned, overridden, inherited.
2. We can not change the final atributes values through constructor also.And if we are initializing final attribute in constructor then we will
      have to initialize thefinal attribute in each constructor of that class, alues may be different.
3. We cannot initialize static final in constructor, instance block.



                                              Initialization Block

1. This is the order of execution
 1. Static variable
 2. Static block
 3. Instance block

2. After JAVA 8 static variable are stored in HEAP

3. Class will be loaded in memory only once and static initialization block will be start execution



                                               Order of execution in java

Java execution happens in 4 major phases:

1.Class Loading
2.Object Creation
3.Constructor Chaining
4.Method Execution

class Loading
Order of execution  = static variables -> static methods -> static initialization blocks  {Top to Bottom if more then one present}
                      Parent static → Child static

Object Creation
Order of Execution =    Instance variables -> Instance Initialization Blocks (IIB) -> Constructors



                                                Method Overridding



1. In case of method overriding  super class method's retuen type and sub class datatype should be same if its premetive data type.




                                               Access Specifiers

1. order of security = Private(same class) -> default(same package) -> protected(other packages) ->public(whole project)
2. order of inhertance = private(private, default, protected, public)
                      Defalut(default, protected, public)
                      protected(protected, public)
                      public(public)
3. Static method should be present in both child and parent




                                 1️⃣ When does a class load in Java?

❌ Class is NOT loaded at compile time
Compilation only checks syntax and creates .class files.
✅ Class is loaded at runtime, when it is first actively used
A class is loaded only if one of these happens:
1. You create an object of that class → new Child()
2. You access a static variable → Child.x
3. You call a static method → Child.staticMethod()
4. A subclass is loaded of above reasons → parent loads first automatically
5. Using Class.forName("ClassName")

⚠️ Important
If a child class is NEVER used, it is NEVER loaded.

When you click the "Run" button in your IDE, you aren't just continuing the previous program. You are terminating the
old "Universe" (JVM Process) and starting a brand-new one.

When I say a class is "loaded once and frozen," that applies to a single, continuous run of the JVM.Their for static block only runs once and insatnce block every time object is created

3. What if you want to change it without restarting? (HotSwap)
There is a feature in modern IDEs called "HotSwap" or "Hot Code
Replace." If you are debugging and you add a line of code, the IDE tries to "patch" the running JVM.



                                 Abstract Method

1. Abstract class do have constructors which can be used for constructor chaining.
2. we can not create object of abstract class, neither use this keyword with "constructor", "Attributes", "Defined methods"
3. can not use static keyword with abstract
4. we can not achieve 100% abstraction and neither multiple inheritance through abstract key word that's why we bring the concept of INTERFACE.


                               Interface
1. We can use default, private, static method inside interface its just we have to define their body.
2. Interface is a collection of public static final data members and public abstract methods.
3. Static final of of an interface can only be initialized at the time of declaration while static final of a class
can be initialized in static initialization block as well as at the time of declaration.
4. In interface You can not declare any variable as private and also initialization is compulsory

 //protected int pit(); protected methods are not allowed inside interface
    // static and private and default method in interface should have body









